Our my friends.
Are we ready for that exciting step of visualizing the clusters.
Well yes we are 100 percent ready.
We are 100 percent ready because indeed we have our y k means dependent variable which contains you
see all the different cluster values for each of the customers.
And so now we're going to use that variable in order to plot these clusters on a nice 2D chart.
All right so let's do this.
Let's start by creating a new code cell and the way we're gonna do this will be by doing several scatter
plots for each of the clusters.
So we will actually scatter plot cluster one then we will scatter plot cluster to up to cluster five.
All right.
So you know how to scatter plot.
There is this function which we actually used before in both regression and classification that function
is of course scatter.
And this function belongs to the map bluntly that by plot module and therefore we're going to call our
shortcut here P L T from which we'll call indeed this scatter function.
All right.
So remember what do we have to input inside this scare function.
Well actually everything is here.
First we have to input the x coordinates of the points.
Then the y coordinates of the points then that's decided will actually specify a size that's the color.
We will also specify color to you know distinguish our different clusters and we will also specify.
Well it is not here but will specify a label because indeed we would like to label each one of our clusters.
Okay great.
There we go.
So as we said we're going to use the scatter function to scatter plot each of the five clusters.
So we're actually going to call five times the square function with different inputs.
And now we're starting with cluster number one cluster of index zero.
So now the question is according to you how are we going to scatter plot all the customers who belong
to cluster one two cluster of index zero.
You know this customer this customer this one and this one and this one and this one all the customers
that have a zero here will be scatter plotted on this truly chart thanks to this first function we're
calling.
All right well let's just take it step by step.
As we just saw the first argument we have to put here are the x coordinate of these customers who belong
to cluster 1.
All right.
So.
Well naturally the first thing we must do is start with X..
Right.
Because X contains exactly the different customers.
You know remember X is actually the matrix of two columns containing the annual income in the first
column and the spending score in the second column and each row of X corresponds to a different customer.
And therefore for each customer the x coordinate will be the annual income and the y coordinate will
be the spending score.
So here in order to get the x coordinate which is our first argument well we have to specify in a pair
of square brackets.
And then after the comma Well the index 0 because that's the first index of the matrix X therefore the
index of the first column.
The annual income which is indeed the x coordinate but as you notice I put this index of the column
after the comma.
And now guess what must be before the comma and which corresponds of course to the rows we want to select
in this cluster one.
Well there you go I have a question for you.
According to you what are the rows of the matrix of features X that we want to select for this first
cluster.
Well very simply these rows have to be all the rows corresponding to the customers who belong to cluster
one.
And how can we specify this here.
You know to the left of this comma to specify that we only want to select the rows of the customers
who belong to cluster one.
Well the trick is to use r y k means variable.
We're gonna call r y came into variable and we're going to specify here to the left this comma you know
to select the rows where we're going to specify y key means w equal and zero so that it will select
among these rows here all the customers for which the Y came in is variable equals zero.
Therefore that means it will select this customer.
This customer this customer you see all the ones for which wiki means is equal to zero.
And that's the trick.
In order to here in these select all the rows corresponding to the customers that belong to class 0.
So these select all these rows in this select the first column meaning the annual income which indeed
corresponds to the x coordinate.
All right.
So a bit tricky at first but now it all makes sense.
We're just selecting right rows in the right column and now we're gonna do the same for the y coordinate
and we're going to do this efficiently so I'm copying this.
And now according to you for the y coordinate what do we need to replace here.
Well for the rows.
Well that's exactly the same we still want the same rows corresponding to the customers for which y
came in is equal to zero meaning the customers of cluster zero.
But for the column we of course want to select the index one which corresponds to the spending score.
Right.
X has two columns the column of index 0 which is the annual income.
And the column of index one which is the spending score.
And that's exactly how we select here all the y coordinates of the customers that belong to cluster
one cluster of index row.
All right.
So that was a trick and now let's add the simple stuff.
So there was the size S equals and we're going to choose a size of one hundred here which will you know
just display some big enough points so that we can see them and each of these points will be of course
the different customers of cluster zero.
Okay.
And then as we said we want to add a color for which the programmer's name is C..
And well let's just choose our first cluster to have the color red.
Okay.
Sorry.
I'm going to clean all this because you don't see much but there you go.
That's the size and that's the color.
And then as we said we also want to add actually a label right to name each of our clusters and this
cluster we will call it you know very simply cluster one we can give different names after all.
You know once we visualize the clusters but so far we will just call them cluster 1.
Okay.
So that's how we scatter plot our first cluster.
Containing all the customers belonging to cluster one.
All right.
Perfect.
So now let's do the same for the other clusters.
So I'm going to actually copy this line of code and we're going to paste it right below to plot the
second cluster and then the third one fourth one and the fifth one.
All right.
So according to you now what do we have to change in this second row in order to plot the second cluster.
Well if you understood how we plotted that first cluster then you should have absolutely no issue to
figure out how to plot this second cluster of course which we only need to change here in the coordinates.
Is that value of y k means which this time is not equal to zero but should be equal to the value of
cluster number two which has index 1.
Right.
Because index is in Python stopped from zero.
And same here same for the y coordinates and then all the rest is the same the selected x coordinate
the selects the y coordinate then which is the same size then of course we're going to choose a different
color we're gonna choose this time blue and then the label will be this time cluster two.
All right.
Very simply.
Now let's do the same for the third cluster.
This time y k means will be equal to two.
Same here.
And which is the same size a new color which will be this time.
Well Green and the label will be cluster three.
Okay let's plug that again.
Why k means we'll be equal this time two three.
That's for cluster number four then.
Here same y came as equal three same size different color which will be this time we must start to become
a notice here.
So let's see.
SIMON You know this color is pretty nice.
Cluster this time for and finally last cluster this time we want to select all the customers belonging
to cluster number five for which all the y humans value are equal to four.
Right.
So here replacing again three by four.
And same size new color which we will choose to be magenta.
And finally label cluster number five.
And congratulations we just plotted are five clusters but we're gonna do even better.
We're now going to plot the central centuries of each of these clusters and to do this we will use once
again the scatter function inside which.
Well that's the same we have to input the different coordinates of these five centuries and then a size
which will be a bigger size that we can really see them well and another color and a label.
All right let's do this.
So here you can't really guess what is going to be the x coordinate and the y coordinates.
So I'm going to tell you right away you can actually get them.
Thanks to our Caymans object because the Caymans class as we saw when implementing the Elbow Method
contains some attributes we already used.
One of its attributes which was the WC assess value.
Remember that was in Russia.
And now we're going to use another attribute for more came into object which is simply cluster centers.
Right.
And the cluster centers attribute is actually to the array which the rows correspond to the different
centuries and the columns correspond to their coordinates.
And so here in the scatter function the coordinates of these centuries will be first key means.
So here I'm going to keep an object from which I'm getting this attribute we want which is there you
go this one cluster of centers.
And since as we said it is to the array containing in the rows well the different centuries and in the
columns there coordinates well for the rows we're going to take everything.
That's why I'm adding a cone here.
But for the column here since we are dealing with the X coordinates we're just gonna take the first
column which has index 0 and which corresponds of course to the x coordinates of these cluster centers.
All right then we're going to copy this because now we'll have to enter the y coordinates of these centroid
these cluster centers.
And therefore I'm basing that here and replacing zero here by the index one which corresponds of course
to the index of the second column inside this cluster Center's array and which corresponds of course
to the y coordinates of the central eight.
All right.
Very simply.
Now we have both the x and y coordinates and so we're going to add the rest of the simple stuff which
are first the size and here we're going to choose a larger size like 300 in order to clearly highlight
the centuries among all these observation points corresponding to the customers in each cluster as equals
three hundred and then a color which will choose to be you know yellow will clearly see them.
And finally a label which will choose to be in quotes sent true eats and perfect.
And now we're basically done with the to the plot.
All there is left to do here is just to add a nice title a nice label to the x axis a nice label to
the y axis and then just show it.
So we're gonna do this now we're going to do this efficiently Well you know I have an idea.
We can actually take what we did here that we don't have to retype everything again and will just change
the input.
So there we go.
I'm going to base that right here.
So let's see for the title.
We're gonna choose.
Well let's say clusters of customers right then for the X label.
Well we're gonna choose annual income.
Right.
Because remember that the x coordinates correspond to the first column here.
Annual income.
And the y coordinates will be the spending's core.
So annual income here and you can specify that it is indeed in K dollars.
Okay good.
And then for the Y label now as we just said it is the spending score and we can specify the scale from
1 to 100.
Perfect.
And finally P LTE dot show.
So there you go my friends.
We're ready to visualize the clusters.
So let's hope I didn't make any mistake and let's play this cell in order to.
Yes perfect.
In order to visualize the clusters so we can clearly see that we have five clusters of customers.
And so now let's analyze them in order to understand what they are.
Because I remind that the goal of doing this you know the goal for the MA to do clustering here is to
understand better their customers you know is to extract some insights from their customers in order
to you know boost the business by making some offerings you know some relevant offers to the different
clusters of customers that are in this group.
Okay.
So let's see.
Let's start with this cluster which should corresponds to the color sign which therefore is cluster
4.
Actually I have an idea we can actually add the legends and the tree to do that is to call the legend
function by still mad plus labor.
See if we play this now we will get the legend See that's easier for us now.
So indeed as we just said this cluster of cosine corresponds to cluster number four.
And what is it characterized by.
Well this cluster basically contains all the customers that have a low annual income and who spends
very few in the mall.
All right.
So that's the first cluster.
Then this cluster here corresponds to cluster number five and contains all the customers who earn a
high annual income but still who don't spend much in the mall then this cluster cluster no one is the
cluster of the customers who earn a low annual income and yet have a high spending score.
All right.
Interesting.
I'll make my comments afterwards on how to leverage these clusters and you know boost business maybe.
So there we go.
Let's continue this cluster of response to cluster number three and contains all the customers that
earn a high annual income and also who spend a lot in the mall.
And finally there is this cluster which is like an average cluster and contains customers that earn
an average annual income and spend normally in the mall.
Okay so interesting we have these different classes of customers and so now you know some business strategies
or business ideas or you know marketing ideas would be for example to target better our customers for
example.
These customers here who belong to cluster three and are characterized by a high annual income in a
high spending score well to these customers we could truly target them the most when there are some
new offers.
You know some new deals because indeed these are with these customers that you'll get the highest chance
to sell your products right.
Because they spend a lot.
And besides they have high annual income therefore a high potential to buy a lot of stuff.
But then you know as a mom you are responsible and you have some ethics.
Well for these customers who seem to earn a low annual income but yet seem to have a problem spending
too much maybe in the mall.
Well maybe that the mall would like to be responsible and protect these customers by not targeting them
too much with new deals and new irresistible offers that after all maybe these customers don't need
at the end of the day.
So yes there is some social responsibility or some ethics in the mall.
Well they would limit perhaps the targeting to these customers.
You know the advertising and all the digital marketing deployed to these customers.
Right.
So that's another insight we could get.
Or another new action item in the strategy which aims to indeed boost the business.
But at the same time be socially responsible.
Then what can we do with this cluster as well.
Same you know low annual income and low spending score.
Well if I was in the board of the mall I would actually not do anything with this cluster because you
know we don't really have to protect them because they don't spend much.
And besides they have a low income so we don't want to target them too much.
What about this one now a high annual income and a low spending score.
Well that's another closer.
That would be interesting to target right.
Because maybe we're missing out on a lot of customers who don't seem to take much action in the mall
here.
So maybe you know for these classes we could brainstorm on how to send them some better advertising
that attract them more and track them better into the mall so that they can purchase more products and
increase their spending score.
So that's what I would do with this cluster.
I would try to improve the advertising so that they can become better customers more loyal customers
who spend more in the mall.
And finally while this cluster again not much we could do because at the same time we would like to
target them but not too much because we don't want to target the ones that have a low annual income.
So we want to protect them at the same time.
And there you go.
I wouldn't do too much here but you see that's exactly the purpose of doing clustering.
We identified some different clusters of customers and for each of them we can deploy different marketing
strategies or different business strategies which will boost customers in some of the clusters and will
protect them in other clusters.
You see you see the point.
That's exactly the kind of insights that you can get from clustering.
All right.
So I hope you enjoyed this practical activity.
Congratulations of course for building training and running this K Means algorithm on this data set.
I remind that here we got a clear visualization because we only chose two features.
But keep in mind that the Caymans algorithm can be run on data sets with many features you know more
than two.
But in that case you won't get a clear visualization but you will still get you know that vector containing
all the different clustered numbers for each of your observations.
And then you can still gather them in different groups corresponding to each of the clusters.
All right.
So that's implementation still works very well for your other datasets with more features.
That's what I wanted to say.
And now my friends we're going to move on to the next section which will either be about you know K
Means in or if you also want to learn or or if you're only into python.
Well you will join me in the next section after that to implement this time another type of clustering
model which is hierarchical clustering.
So wherever you choose.
I can't wait to see you soon in a new section.
And until then enjoy machine learning.